---
date: "2020-05-24T11:43:43Z"
tags:
- intro
- muslim
- essay
title: Intro
---
وَإِذْ قَالَ رَبُّكَ لِلْمَلَٰٓئِكَةِ إِنِّى جَاعِلٌ فِى ٱلْأَرْضِ خَلِيفَةً ۖ قَالُوٓا۟ أَتَجْعَلُ فِيهَا مَن يُفْسِدُ فِيهَا وَيَسْفِكُ ٱلدِّمَآءَ وَنَحْنُ نُسَبِّحُ بِحَمْدِكَ وَنُقَدِّسُ لَكَ ۖ قَالَ إِنِّىٓ أَعْلَمُ مَا لَا تَعْلَمُونَ

˹Remember˺ when your Lord said to the angels, "I am going to place a successive ˹human˺ authority on earth." They asked ˹Allah˺, "Will You place in it someone who will spread corruption there and shed blood while we glorify Your praises and proclaim Your holiness?" Allah responded, "I know what you do not know."

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    "What is good?—Whatever augments the feeling of power, the will to power, power itself, in man.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    What is evil?—Whatever springs from weak-ness.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    What is happiness?—The feeling that power increases—that resistance is overcome."
  </p>
</blockquote>



O almost I drown in the rottenness of happiness

How do I love happiness

If it wanted by all

If it wanted to take it all



I don't want to choose it

It is deceitful



Everlasting happiness?

What nonsense? Nihilism is seductive, isn't Islam nihilism?

True happiness, true purity, or true passion.



Everything teases me, they offer me everything, rotten, business people.

Business is very tempting, but it is the work of mortals. And I do not desire eternal.

I only want power, power, and only power. If business wants me to power, then I take it.



The Power.

According to universal law.



But it's a fool who wants power. And I don't want to be stupid, I just want to be scared.

Fear is the most honest.

As for power, Oh, it just contains innocence.

The innocence of a wise man, the innocence of a deceiver, the innocence of he who does not admit to fear.



Innocence brings goodness. Pure virtues. The kindness of the wise. Oh, these good people, what kind of crime do they want to commit after doing so much goods?



So I just want fear.

To hell with the power quote, they are just scared people.

No law of conservation of energy, only the law of conservation of fear which exists.

The only ones who have power are those who are innocent, who hide their fear. Or because he is afraid he has power, or because he is afraid he creates?



So all I have to find is fear,

Oh this fear, now is what teases me.

Even this fear was no different from the seduction of happiness, the seduction of a madman.



Will you lose your purity, fear?

The source of all kinds of deceit. And maybe you hide it like the diction of crazy poets.

Poetry that has no meaning to cover fear, poetry that destroys the way of the mind, the way of the heart, the way of the spirit, the way of the ruh.



The path to a holy heart. O fear, your poetry, your fear. And your fear always possesses me to exert power. Yes, power. And you make your fear a power. Your pure innocent fear, you turn it all into power rotten.



And small existences, without power, who can empower them? Isn't it only he who has the power that can? For existences that are alive and that are considered to be dead, that which are cut down, which are neglected, which are sacrificed, only with power can all live or feel alive. After all, who wants to live other than the living, or who has power?

Then nothing attracts me anymore, apart from you, power. I will guard your order and set it in the heart, in the mind, in the soul, in the spirit. I will fulfill all your orders, who are almighty, to rule. I love power with all my heart, and because I love power, I love all the power that exists.



Or in other words, I instilled in my heart, the deepest fear of the power of the omnipotent.

So at your command, I announce, that I will follow your path, the path to power.

Making everything have power.



So whatever the obstacles, I will pursue your power,

to make me have power,

to make every existence to rule, to power.



In that way, I will show every existence

how powerful you are,

how terrifying you are,

how afraid you are



And hereby I declare, I will be your shepherd

<p class="has-text-align-center">
  أَشْهَدُ أَنْ لاَ إِلَهَ إِلاَّ اللهُ
</p>

<p class="has-text-align-center">
  وَ أَشْهَدُ أَنَّ مُحَمَّدًا رَسُولُ اللهِ
</p>