---
date: "2023-08-20"
tags:
- story
- essay
- muslim
title: Dear Budiman Sudjatmiko
---

Untuk Budi, 

rather than building 'BUKIT ALGORITMA' the hills of wannabe Silicon Valley algorithms that are centralized, elitist, and stagnant, it's better to develop a mosque-based social credit system like Chongqing. The title is 'AKSELERASI SMART CITY MELALUI MASJID BERPRESTASI' which is more decentralized and prioritizes equal distribution.

It gets boring every time there's a beggar, making it very difficult to verify whether they are genuinely in need or not.

Mosques are popping up everywhere, but if they can't detect the needy and hungry, what's their function? What does the social affairs department do? If there's such a system, it would be convenient; those who claim to be in need can report there, and then it can be detected and verified whether they are frauds or not.

I've encountered cases like this several times. I'll give two examples: in Bandung, I met a man who claimed to have difficulty finding a job, walked from Jatinangor because he heard there was a job in Bandung, and he said he was deceived. He claimed not to have eaten for two days. Another case in Jakarta, a man said his motorcycle was broken, so he couldn't do ride-hailing, and he was abandoned by his children and wife, not knowing what job to do, even saying, 'If suicide is not forbidden, according to my religion, I would kill myself.' My logic is always biased when someone talks about wanting to commit suicide, but because they are fundamentally stingy, in the end, I gave money for them to buy food or other necessities, hopefully enough for a journey of more than 20 km in search of lawful employment.

Look at the 'KELUH BASAH LELE BERULAH' forum complaining in Facebook groups; many people share their stories and receive transfers from 'generous' people, some are genuine, and some are not. If the giver is a fraud, this giver becomes one of the contributors to the culture of laziness. Don't be compassionate, 'God in Christianity died of his pity for mankind.'

There is something from the Ministry of Religious Affairs (Kemenag), and its functions can be expanded. Can it be open source if you want to contribute? What's the progress, @kemenag?

Wow, the poverty standard is 20 thousand per person; what can you eat every day? What does that mean, @bps?

https://www.cnbcindonesia.com/news/20230119080431-4-406648/kategori-miskin-di-ri-pengeluaran-di-bawah-rp-17851---hari

Budi, you seem a bit liberal, so it seems there's a blind spot on the religious side, even though there is great potential if explored and exploited. Try digging into data about mosques; maybe it can slightly cleanse your background that appears less religious in a country that is mostly 'religious.' Not just for the common good, but also from influencers who seem libertarian, like Cania, Vincent, etc.

Digitizing the mosque system can have a significant impact; the stock market moves because of transparency and incentives. If the data is not open, it won't develop. Even open data can still be manipulated. Regeneration of mosque administrators and youth cadres. They say they don't want to be mosque teenagers, but have they been invited? Speak up a bit, and they're called disobedient and lacking in manners.

Data-driven, transparent.

The presence of religion is there to be exploited. Religion is a blessing from God. Materialism doesn't fit in Indonesia. Those who cannot exploit religion will suffer.

I hate data labeling and all labels, but one must do the dirty job.